The President:
Yesterday, the House of Representatives passed a
historic piece of legislation
that will open the door to a
clean energy economy and a
better future for America.
For more than three decades, we've talked about our
dependence on foreign oil.
And for more than three decades,
we have seen that dependence grow.
We've seen our reliance on fossil fuels jeopardize our
national security.
We've seen it pollute the air we breathe and endanger our planet.
And most of all, we've seen other countries realize a
critical truth: the nation that
leads in the creation of a clean
energy economy will be the
nation that leads the 21st
century global economy.
Now is the time for the United
States of America to realize this, too.
Now's the time for us to lead.
The energy bill that passed the
House will finally create a set
of incentives that will spark a
clean energy transformation in
our economy.
It will spur the development of
low carbon sources of energy --
everything from wind, solar,
and geothermal power to safer
nuclear energy and cleaner coal.
It will spur new energy savings,
like the efficient windows and
other materials that reduce
heating costs in the winter and
cooling costs in the summer.
And most importantly, it will
make possible the creation of
millions of new jobs.
Make no mistake:
this is a jobs bill.
We're already seeing why this
is true in the clean energy
investments we're making
through the Recovery Act.
In California, 3,000 people will
be employed to build a new solar
plant that in turn will
create 1,000 permanent jobs.
In Michigan, investment in wind
turbines and wind technology is
expected to create
over 2,600 jobs.
In Florida, three new solar
projects are expected to employ
1,400 people.
The list goes on and on, but the
point is this: this legislation
will finally make clean energy
the profitable kind of energy.
That will lead to the creation
of new businesses and entire new industries.
And that will lead to American
jobs that pay well and can't be outsourced.
I've often talked about the need to build a new foundation for
economic growth so that we don't return to the endless cycle of
bubble and bust that
led us to this recession.
Clean energy and the jobs it
creates will be absolutely
critical to this new foundation.
This legislation has also been
carefully written to address the
concerns that many have
expressed in the past.
Instead of increasing
the deficit,
it's paid for by the polluters
who currently emit dangerous
carbon emissions.
It provides assistance to
businesses and families as they
make the gradual transition
to clean energy technologies.
It gives rural communities and
farmers the opportunity to
participate in climate solutions
and generate new income.
And above all, it will protect
consumers from the costs of this
transition, so that in a decade,
the price to the average
American will be just about
a postage stamp a day.
Because this legislation is
so balanced and sensible,
it's already attracted a remarkable coalition of consumer
and environmental groups;
labor and business leaders;
Democrats and Republicans.
And I want to thank every Member
of Congress who put politics
aside to support
this bill on Friday.
Now my call to every Senator,
as well as to every American,
is this: We cannot be
afraid of the future.
And we must not be
prisoners of the past.
Don't believe the misinformation
out there that suggests that
there's somehow a contradiction between investing in clean
energy and economic growth.
It's just not true.
We've been talking
about energy for decades.
But there's no longer a
disagreement over whether our
dependence on foreign oil is
endangering our security.
It is.
There's no longer a debate about whether carbon pollution is
placing our planet in jeopardy.
It's happening.
And there's no longer a question about whether the jobs and
industries of the 21st century will be centered around clean,
renewable energy.
The question is, which country
will create these jobs and these industries?
I want that answer to be the
United States of America.
And I believe that the American
people and the men and women
they sent to Congress
share that view.
So I want to congratulate the
House for passing this bill,
and I want to urge the Senate to
take this opportunity to come
together and meet
our obligations --
to our constituents, to our
children, to God's creation,
and to future generations.
Thanks for listening.